46. Question 46

Passage:

Signed on June 28, 1919, as an end to the First World War, The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to ensure a lasting peace by punishing Germany and setting up a League of Nations to solve diplomatic problems. Instead, it left a legacy of political and geographical difficulties that have often been blamed,
sometimes solely, for starting the Second World War.

World War | had been fought for four years when, on November 11, 1918, Germany and the Allies signed an armistice, The Allies soon gathered to discuss the peace treaty they would sign, but Germany and Austria-Hungary weren't invited; instead, they were allowed only to present a response to the
treaty, a response that was largely ignored, Terms were drawn up mainly by the so-called Big Three: British Prime Minister Lloyd George, French Prime Minister Frances Clemenceau, and U.5. President Woodrow Wilson,

Each government represented by the men in the Big Three had different desires. Woodrow Wilson wanted a “fair and lasting peace" and had written a plan—the Fourteen Points—to achieve this. He wanted the armed forces of all nations reduced, not just the losers, and a League of Nations created to
ensure peace,

Frances Clemenceau wanted Germany to pay dearly for the war, including being stripped of land, industry, and its armed forces. He also wanted heavy reparations.

Lloyd George was affected by public opinion in Britain, which agreed with Clemenceau, though he personally agreed with Wilson.

The result was a treaty that tried to compromise, and many of the details were passed down to uncoordinated subcommittees to work aut, who thought they were drafting a starting point rather than the final wording, It was an almost impossible task. They were asking for the ability to pay off loans and
debts with German cash and goods but also to restore the pan-European economy. The treaty needed to state territorial demands—many of which were included in secret treaties—but also to allow self-determination and deal with growing nationalism. it also needed to remove the German threat but
not humiliate the nation and breed a generation intent on revenge—all while mollifying voters.

Modern historians sometimes conclude that the treaty was more lenient than might have been expected and not really unfair. They argue that, although the treaty didn't stop another war, this was more due to massive fault lines in Europe that WWI failed to solve, and they argue that the treaty would
have worked had the Allied nations enforced it, instead of falling out and being played off one another. This remains a controversial view. You rarely find a modern historian agreeing that the treaty solely caused World War Il, although clearly, it failed in its aim to prevent another major war,

Question: Why did some modern historians challenge the view that the Treaty of Versailles solely caused World War Il?

Pick ONE option

O They believed that Germany was too powerful to be controlled by a treaty.

O They thought the treaty's terms were too lenient and didn’t impact Germany's economy,

O They believed that Germany's armed forces were fully dismantled after the treaty.

O They saw broader issues in Europe that contributed to the outbreak of war.

