42. Question 42

Passage:

Signed on June 28, 1919, as an end to the First World War, The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to ensure a lasting peace by punishing Germany and setting up a League of Nations to solve diplomatic problems. Instead, it left a legacy of political and geographical difficulties that have often been blamed,
sometimes solely, for starting the Second World War.

World War | had been fought for four years when, on November 11, 1918, Germany and the Allies signed an armistice, The Allies soon gathered to discuss the peace treaty they would sign, but Germany and Austria-Hungary weren't invited; instead, they were allowed only to present a response to the
treaty, a response that was largely ignored. Terms were drawn up mainly by the so-called Big Three: British Prime Minister Lloyd George, French Prime Minister Frances Clemenceau, and U.S. President Woodrow Wilson.

Each government represented by the men in the Big Three had different desires. Woodrow Wilson wanted a “fair and lasting peace" and had written a plan—the Fourteen Points—to achieve this. He wanted the armed forces of all nations reduced, not just the losers, and a League of Nations created to
ensure peace,

Frances Clemenceau wanted Germany to pay dearly for the war, including being stripped of land, industry, and its armed forces. He also wanted heavy reparations.

Loyd George was affected by public opinion in Britain, which agreed with Clemenceau, though he personally agreed with Wilson,

The result was a treaty that tried to compromise, and many of the details were passed down to uncoordinated subcommittees to work out, who thought they were drafting a starting point rather than the final wording, It was an almost impossible task. They were asking for the ability to pay off loans and
debts with German cash and goods but also to restore the pan-European economy, The treaty needed to state territorial demands—many of which were included in secret treaties—but also to allow self-determination and deal with growing nationalism. It also needed to remove the German threat but
not hurniliate the nation and breed a generation intent on revenge—all while mollifying voters.

Modern historians sometimes conclude that the treaty was more lenient than might have been expected and not really unfair. They argue that, although the treaty didn't stop another war, this was more due to massive fault lines in Europe that WWI failed to solve, and they argue that the treaty would
have worked had the Allied nations enforced it, instead of falling out and being played off one another. This remains a controversial view. You rarely find a modern historian agreeing that the treaty solely caused World War Il, although clearly, it failed in its aim to prevent another major war.

Question: What does the passage suggest about the impact of public opinion on Lloyd George's stance during the treaty negotiations?

ick ONE option

O Public opinion in Britain was strongly against the treaty’s terms.

O Lloyd George disregarded public opinion to support Wilson’s plan.

O Lloyd George's stance was influenced by both public opinion and personal agreement.

O Public opinion in Britain had no effect on the treaty negotiations.

43. Question 43

Passage:

Signed on June 28, 1919, as an end to the First World War, The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to ensure a lasting peace by punishing Germany and setting up a League of Nations to solve diplomatic problems. Instead, it left a legacy of political and geographical difficulties that have often been blamed,
sometimes solely, for starting the Second World War.

World War | had been fought for four years when, on November 11, 1918, Germany and the Allies signed an armistice. The Allies soon gathered to discuss the peace treaty they would sign, but Germany and Austria-Hungary weren't invited; instead, they were allowed only to present a response to the
treaty, a response that was largely ignored, Terms were drawn up mainly by the so-called Big Three: British Prime Minister Lloyd George, French Prime Minister Frances Clemenceau, and U.S, President Woodrow Wilson.

Each government represented by the men in the Big Three had different desires. Woodrow Wilson wanted a “fair and lasting peace" and had written a plan—the Fourteen Points—to achieve this. He wanted the armed forces of all nations reduced, not just the losers, and a League of Nations created to
ensure peace,

Frances Clemenceau wanted Germany to pay dearly for the war, including being stripped of land, industry, and its armed forces. He also wanted heavy reparations.

Lloyd George was affected by public opinion in Britain, which agreed with Clemenceau, though he personally agreed with Wilson.

The result was a treaty that tried to compromise, and many of the details were passed down to uncoordinated subcommittees to work out, who thought they were drafting a starting point rather than the final wording, It was an almost impossible task. They were asking for the ability to pay off loans and
debts with German cash and goods but also to restore the pan-European economy. The treaty needed to state territorial demands—many of which were included in secret treaties—but also to allow self-determination and deal with growing nationalism. It also needed to remove the German threat but
not humiliate the nation and breed a generation intent on revenge—all while mollifying voters.

Modern historians sometimes conclude that the treaty was more lenient than might have been expected and not really unfair. They argue that, although the treaty didn't stop another war, this was more due to massive fault lines in Europe that WWI failed to solve, and they argue that the treaty would
have worked had the Allied nations enforced it, instead of falling out and being played off one another. This remains a controversial view. You rarely find a modern historian agreeing that the treaty solely caused World War II, although clearly, it failed in its aim to prevent another major war.

Question: Based on the passage, why was drafting the Treaty of Versailles described as an "almost impossible task"?

Pick ONE option

O The treaty needed to achieve multiple conflicting objectives.

O The subcommittees lacked coordination and expertise.

O The treaty's terms conflicted with each nation's economic goals.

O The secret treaties were too difficult to incorporate.

